+++
title = "Business Tip: Pretend You're Bigger Than You Are"
date = 2019-08-06

[params]
author = "Mike Schwartz"
+++

Just like meeting a person for the first time, businesses often make judgments
on first impressions. Here’s a business tip that you might want to consider-
pretend you’re bigger than you are.

<!--more-->

Have all your business formation information ready before contacting any
suppliers. Make sure you have your EIN number, LLC documents, prepared W9,
website and business email addresses prior to contacting vendors, suppliers,
potential clients, or distributors.

Product and ingredient suppliers will often ask for this information prior to
giving out bulk pricing for packaging and ingredients. They often prefer that
smaller companies and individuals go through a distributor. However, it is
essential for your business planning to know what the bulk direct and
distributor pricing will be—even if it’s unlikely that you will order from them
for months or years. Make sure you ask the price per pallet, the price per
truckload, and what the minimum order is.

The goal in your business planning is to determine if your business and product
can be profitable 1 or 5 years from now. To do that you need all of the
information, in order to understand where the price breaks are for ingredients,
packaging materials, and manufacturing. If a truckload price doesn’t work in
your pro forma, then you have a hobby, not a viable business.

For example if you use sugar, a large company like Wholesome Sweeteners is not
going to engage with you if you only want to purchase 50 pounds. Instead, they
will direct you to a distributor. But if you say “ I purchase 6 pallets per
quarter, what is your MOQ (minimum order quantity)”, then you will get their
attention.

Other businesses can be hesitant to give out information to consumers, so it
helps if you can present like you are a larger more established business even if
you are just starting out.

This research will help you determine if your great hobby will also make a great
business.
