+++
title = "About the Organic Food Incubator"
+++

## Mission and Vision

To be the premier specialty US co-packer, dedicated to crafting distinctive and
high-quality products with our clients. Our vision is to empower emerging brands
and artisans by providing expert co-packing services that uphold the values of
authenticity, innovation, and sustainability. We count our employees as major
stakeholders in our company's future and our clients' success. Through our
commitment to excellence and personalized partnerships, we aim to contribute
significantly to the success and growth of our clients and the communities we
serve.

## Our History and Evolution

The Organic Food Incubator in Bloomfield, New Jersey, has a unique and
interesting history that highlights its role in supporting organic and
conventional food startups and fostering innovation in the food industry.

The Organic Food Incubator (OFI) was founded in 2009 by Mike Brady and CEO,
Michael Schwartz. The idea stemmed from Mike Schwartz's passion for organic and
sustainable food practices, Mike Brady’s goal of social responsibility and their
desire to create a space (ecosystem) where food entrepreneurs could bring their
ideas to life. The facility and staffing are designed to provide a supportive
environment for small and medium--scale food producers looking to develop and
scale their organic/conventional products.

Mike Schwartz’s many years of experience working as a chef at some of the
world’s finest restaurants (Le Cirque and Osteria del Circo amongst others)
established his culinary bona fides. Prior to starting the OFI, he taught
culinary arts for twelve years at the Institute for Culinary Education (ICE) in
New York City.

OFI's journey began with humble beginnings in a small facility in Long Island
City. The business began as the brand BAO (Bad Ass Organics) which made premium
Kombucha and fermented products. At the same time, OFI provided rental kitchen
space and expertise to aspiring startups to smooth their journey and ensure
their success. As the demand for organic and natural products grew, so did the
need for facilities like OFI that could help new business entrepreneurs navigate
the complex processes of regulation and safe food production. Over the years,
OFI expanded its operations and moved to a larger facility in Bloomfield New
Jersey during 2016 to accommodate the growing number of clients and the
increasing complexity of their production needs.

The key aspects of OFI's history are its commitment to sustainability and
eco-friendly practices and goal of providing a healthy work environment that
offers the employees a living wage and the opportunity for growth and
advancement From the beginning, OFI has prioritized using organic ingredients
where possible and practical, minimizing waste, and implementing
energy-efficient technologies in its operations. This dedication to
sustainability has not only aligned with the values of its clients but has also
positioned OFI as a leader in environmentally conscious food production.

OFI's success and reputation have been built on its collaborative approach to
working with clients. The OFI provides not just a manufacturing space for
production but also offers guidance, mentorship, and resources to help
entrepreneurs succeed. This supportive ecosystem has led to the growth and
success of numerous food brands that have emerged from OFI's incubation program.

In recent years, OFI has continued to evolve and adapt to the changing landscape
of the food industry. It has expanded its services to include co-packing,
private labeling , logistics and product development support-catering to a
diverse range of clients from small startups to established brands looking to
enter new markets.

The Organic Food Incubator in Bloomfield, NJ, has played a pivotal role in
nurturing food innovation, promoting sustainability, and empowering food
entrepreneurs to bring their visions to fruition. Its history is a testament to
the power of collaboration, creativity, and dedication to making a positive
impact on the food industry and the planet.
