+++
title = "Courses"
+++

Here at OFI Courses, we love to educate startups, entrepreneurs, restaurant
owners, and all forms of small businesses about the fantastic world of the food
industry. You can expect to learn food safety practices, product development
tactics, and food production processes. We have two options for how to learn
with us- a self-paced course and webinars, which are presented live and recorded
so that they can be watched on-demand. In addition, our blog has a wealth of
information about food production.

## Self-Paced Courses

Once you have a food or beverage recipe that you would like to turn into a
product and sell, you need to have your recipe reviewed by a food scientist to
get the proper food safety documentation, called a “scheduled process”. This
will tell you or your manufacturer how to make your product safe for
distribution. To get a scheduled process, you have to complete some very
specific tasks and procedures. This course will teach you how to most
effectively navigate this process.
[Full Course](https://www.udemy.com/course/getting-a-scheduled-process-for-food-and-beverage-products/)

{{< youtube eYBjetgMjwg >}}

## Webinars

In addition to our online course, we have a series of webinars covering a
variety of topics. Subjects include:

- Understanding Food Business Licenses, Insurances, and Certifications
- Organic Certification Vs Kosher Certification: Everything You Need To Know
  Before Applying
- Getting Your Food Products Into Big Name Stores And Working With Distribution
- Commercial Kitchens For Food Businesses: Everything You Need To Know
- And more!

### Developing Your First Food Or Beverage Business For Long Term Success

Are you a startup, resturant, or entrepreneur that is thinking about creating
your own food product? This is the perfect food manufacturing training for you!
In this manufacturing workshop we cover all the essentials that you need to get
started in the food industry.

You will learn how to turn your recipes into products that you can sell in
stores. We’ll also be discussing product testing, labeling, bottling, packaging,
profit margins, business management tactics, and so much more!

[Watch Recording](https://organicfoodincubator.webinarninja.com/automated-webinars/17978/register)

### Understanding Food Business Licenses, Insurances, And Certifications

In this food manufacturing class, Co-Host Marc Lehmuller, RBL Associates Inc.,
discusses some of the best strategies and tactics for new and current food
businesses.

You will gain valuable knowledge and advice on constructing your business for
long-term success. We’ll cover LLC, C-Corp, S-Corp, and other business entities.

We also discuss the insurance options that are available for your business.
We’ll talk about property, boiler & machinery, commercial general liability, and
more.

[Watch Recording](https://organicfoodincubator.webinarninja.com/automated-webinars/18115/register)

### Commercial Kitchens For Food Businesses | Everything You Need To Know

Are you thinking about finding a commercial kitchen to produce your product in?
If so, there are some important things you need to know before sign anything.

In this food manufacturing workshop we cover everything you need to know about a
commercial kitchen. We also discuss the option of producing your product from
your home.

You’ll learn how to find a commercial kitchen, insurances, equipment, what
questions to ask, red flags in contracts, maintenance, and best commercial
kitchen best practices.

[Watch Recording](https://organicfoodincubator.webinarninja.com/automated-webinars/18016/register)

### Food Product Development | Recipe Creation And Testing Procedures

Creating your own recipe can be tough, but it’s even more of a challenge when
it’s meant for mass production for supermarkets.

In this food manufacturing training we discuss all the steps and tasks that are
crucial when developing recipes that will be turned into store products.

You will learn about recipe creation strategies, food safety, shelf stability,
scheduled processes, testing procedures, documentations, cooking best practices,
and tips & tricks for success.

[Watch Recording](https://organicfoodincubator.webinarninja.com/automated-webinars/18128/register)

### Organic Certification Vs Kosher Certification: Everything You Need To Know Before Applying

In this workshop, we’ll discuss everything you need to know about organic
certifications and kosher certifications. We’ll discuss the application process,
requirements, documents and tricks and tips for success.

[Watch Recording](https://organicfoodincubator.webinarninja.com/automated-webinars/19236/register)
