+++
title = "What Is A Scheduled Process?"
date = 2020-02-03
[params]
author = "Mike Schwartz"
thumbnail = "images/bg.jpeg"
+++

You just came up with a brand new product. Now, you want to get it distributed
and produced on a large scale to send out to stores. Before you can do that you
need to determine if you need to get a scheduled process completed and if you do
need one, complete it. Most beverages, sauces, and condiments need a scheduled
process. What is a scheduled process?

<!--more-->

**A scheduled process is a detailed recipe and procedure developed for your
product.** It is reviewed and edited by a recognized process authority, some of
which are listed [here](). The scheduled process also includes information about
your product’s ingredients, formulation tasks, packaging details, storage, and
distribution guidelines. There are some important aspects of a scheduled process
that you need to be aware of before starting to produce food.

## Acidified Foods Need A Scheduled Process

Drinks, beverages, and even canned goods that have acidic substances in them are
often required by law to get a scheduled process done for their product. This is
important because acidified food and drinks are regulated more closely due to
the shelf life stability requirements. This process makes sure you can
understand and follow critical aspects of production that must be met each time
you make a batch of your product.

If an acidified food or beverage is improperly processed and distributed, the
health of your consumers may be adversely affected. The financial, legal, and
brand reputation damage of a forced recall can be minimized with a proper
Scheduled Process.

## Records and Regsistration

Having your products go through a scheduled process review also forces you to
produce all the proper documentation. These documents help prove that your
product has been reviewed and verified safe by a recognized process authority.

The critical control points steps laid out in the scheduled process must be
followed. If you don’t complete each of these important steps successfully as
they are listed then your product may be unsafe and is illegal to sell. Proving
the safety of your products for customers’ use should be one of your top
concerns.

To prove that you completed all tasks and all necessary procedures you have to
keep great records. It is a requirement that you keep records every time you
produce your product. Anytime you make changes to the process, you have to make
sure you note those changes on your records and go to the process authority for
an amendment. The food manufacturer is required to register all your documents
with the FDA (Food and Drug Administration). It’s important to keep good records
and registrations to provide an extra level of protection. Generally, the
manufacturer will take care of these records for you.

In conclusion, getting your scheduled process done when your product is ready
for mainstream distribution is as important as your budgets, projections, and
goals.

If this process seems intimidating, or you would like guidance in this process,
you can complete the application with us at Organic Food Incubator, and we’ll
help you get it done fast and correct it the first time, or you can check out
our course below to learn how to complete it yourself.

{{< youtube eYBjetgMjwg >}}
